Task usage metrics documentation (#1864)
astronomer/docs: software/task-usage-metrics.md

---
title: 'Set up task usage metrics on Astronomer Software'
sidebar_label: 'Set up task usage metrics'
id: task-usage-metrics
description: Configure the Astronomer Software platform to record metrics about task usage.
---

Task usage metrics provide an overview of your Airflow task runs and can help you quickly identify Deployments where more tasks are running or failing than expected.

## Enable task usage metrics on your Software installation

To enable task usage metrics for your entire Astronomer installation, configure the following values in your `config,yaml` file:

```yaml
global:
  taskUsageMetricsEnabled: true
```

After you set this configuration, Astronomer Software begins to run a cron job for collecting task usage metrics at the 57th minute of every hour, sending them to Astronomer support, and displaying them in the Software UI every. By default, your Astronomer installation retains this data for 90 days. 

## Set up task usage metrics on a Deployment (_Required only for Astronomer Certified and Astro Runtime < 7.2_)

> Task usage metrics are generated by the Astronomer-maintained `airflow-analytics-plugin`. This plug-in queries the Airflow metadata database and returns usage analytics at an HTTP endpoint. Deployments using Runtime 6.1 or later have this plug-in installed by default.

Reviewer: 6.1 -> 7.2

> Task usage metrics are generated by the Astronomer-maintained `airflow-analytics-plugin`. This plug-in queries the Airflow metadata database and returns usage analytics at an HTTP endpoint. Deployments using Runtime 6.1 or later have this plug-in installed by default.

Author: ```suggestion
Task usage metrics are generated by the Astronomer-maintained `airflow-analytics-plugin`. This plug-in queries the Airflow metadata database and returns usage analytics at an HTTP endpoint. Deployments using Runtime 7.2 or later have this plug-in installed by default.
```

To install the plug-in on a Deployment using Astronomer Certified or Astro Runtime earlier than 6.1:

1. Add the following line to the `requirements.txt` file of your Astro project:

    ```text
    https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-analytics-plugin/releases/download/1.0.3/astronomer_analytics_plugin-1.0.3-py3-none-any.whl
    ```

2. Push your changes to Astronomer Software. See [Deploy code](deploy-cli.md).

## View task usage metrics

> Depending on your permissions, you can view task usage metrics for a given installation, Workspace, or Deployment in the Astronomer UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on your permissions, you can view task usage metrics for a given installation, Workspace, or Deployment in the Astronomer Software UI.
```

Reviewer 2: Should the other instances of _Astronomer UI_ be updated as well?
